>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
DECEMBER 22nd, ISRAELI OFFICIALS
CONDEMN AMERICAN SPYING.
AND A BOMB EXPLODES ON A BUS
NEAR TEL AVIV.
A RARE LOOKA THE IRAN THROUG
ITS ARTS AND FLYING COACH, THERE
MAY BE A POWERFUL PERSONAL STORY
SITTING RIGHT NEXT TO YOU.
>> MY GRANDFATHER SAW THAT A
SUCHA I POWERFUL MOMENT IN
HISTORY THAT HE WANTED TO HAVE
HIS FAMILY CARRY THE NAME REFE
TO A NEW DAWN AND FROM THE
FIRSTBORN THE FAMILY RECEIVE
THE NAME NORMANDY, NEXT ON THE
PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK THI
IS PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I'M JOHN LARSON.
WILL BE BACK NEXT WEEKEND.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 13 MONTH
THERE'S BEEN A BOMB EXPLOSION ON
KNOW ISRAELI BUS
AUTHORITIES BLAME PALESTINIA
MILITANTS FOR WHAT THEY CALL A
TERROR ATTACK.
THE BOMB WENT OFF NEAR TIL
AVIV, SHATTERING WINDOWS AND
CAUSING NO INJURIES.
EVERYONE HAD BEEN EVACUATE
PRIOR TO THE BLAST AFTER A
PASSENGER WARNED THE BUS DRIVE
ABOUT A SUSPICIOUS PACKAGE
NO ONE CLAIMED RESPONSIBLITY FOR
PLANTING THE BOMB.
AFTER AN ISRAELI CABINET MEETING
TODAY, SEVERAL HIGH-LEVE
OFFICIALS CONDEMNED THE UNITED
STATES FOR SPYING ON ISRAEL.
ONE CABINET MINISTER CALLED IT
UNACCEPTABLE
DOCUMENTS LEAKED BY EDWARD
SNOWDEN THAT WERE MADE PUBLI
FRIDAY SHOWED THAT THE UNITE
STATES SPIED ON THEN ISRAELI
PRIME MINISTER EHUD OLMERT AND
DEFENSE MINISTER EHUD BARACK I
A NUMBER OF ISRAELI OFFICIAL
TODAY CALLED FOR THE RELEASE
FROM A U.S. PRISON OF ISRAEL
SPY JONATHAN POLLARD
HE WAS SENTENCED TO LIFE IN 1987
FOR SPYING ON THE UNITED STATE
FOR ISRAEL
IN NEIGHBORING SYRIA TODAY
DOZENS WERE KILLED IN ANOTHE
MAJOR GOVERNMENT BOMBING ATTAC
ON REBELS IN AND AROUND TH
NORTHERN CITY OF ALEPPO.
AN ACTIVIST GROUP SAID AT LEAS
32 PEOPLE DIED DURING TH
BOMBARDMENT OF THE REBEL-HEL
SECTION OF THE CITY.
IT WAS THE EIGHTH CONSECUTIV
DAY OF GOVERNMENT BOMBING THER
THAT HAS CAUSED AT LEAST 200
DEATHS
REUTERS RELEASED THESE PICTURE
TAKEN FROM A SOCIAL MEDI
WEBSITE SAID TO SHOW THE
AFTERMATH OF THE ATTACK.
IN LONDON TODAY, OUTRAGE OVE
THE DEATH OF A BRITISH
ORTHOPEDIC SURGEON WHO WENT TO
SYRIA TO HELP VICTIMS OF THE
CIVIL WAR THERE.
DR. ABBAS KHAN DIED IN A SYRIA
JAIL UNDER MYSTERIOU
CIRCUMSTANCES JUST DAYS BEFORE
HE WAS TO BE SET FREE.
HIS FAMILY INSISTS HE WA
STARVED AND BEATEN WHILE BEING
HELD, ITV NEWS REPORTS
>> DR. KAHN'S FAMILY FOUGHT FO
13 MONTHS FOR HIM TO BE RELEASED
BY THE SYRIAN REGIME, BUT NO
LIKE THIS.
HIS BODY ARRIVING IN LEBANON I
THE BACK OF AN AMBULANCE
HIS HEART BROKEN MOTHER PROMISED
BY THE SYRIANS THIS WAS TH
WEEKEND SHE'D BE REUNITED WITH
HER SON INSTEAD HAS ONLY HIS
COFFIN
THE SYRIAN AUTHORITIES CLAIM H
HUNG HIMSELF FOUR DAYS BEFORE HE
WAS TO BE FREED, AN ALLEGATION
RECEIVED WITH CONTEMPT BY HI
MOTHER
>> THEY'RE MURDERERS
THEY'RE MURDERERS!
>> DR. KAHN, A BRITISH
ORTHOPEDIC SURGEON WAS ARRESTE
AFTER TRAVELING TO SYRIA T
TREAT THE VICTIMS OF HIS WAR
HE WAS IMPRISONED, TORTURED AN
STARVED.
HIS MOTHER WAS TOLD OF ONE O
ASSAD'S ADVISERS THAT HE WAS
MURDERED BECAUSE HE WAS
TERRORIST.
>> HE TOLD ME THAT YES, WE
KILLED YOUR SON BECAUSE YOUR SON
CAME TO KILL MY SON.
I SAID MY SON'S PROFESSION IS TO
GIVE LIFE NOT TO TAKE LIFE
HE CAME TO GIVE LIFE TO YOUR SON
IN CASE HE WAS INJURED
HE SAID NO, YOUR SON IS
CRIMINAL
HE WAS A TERRORIST SO WE KILLE
HIM.
WHO CANNOT DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN
A LIFE-GIVING PERSON AND A
LIFE-TAKING PERSON
A TERRORIST AND A HUMANITARIAN
AID WORKER
THEY CAN'T DIFFERENTIATE
>> THIS WAS DR. KAHN PREPARING
FOR HIS AID MISSION OVER A YEA
AGO.
HIS MOTHER WENT TO DAMACUS T
PLEAD FOR HER SON'S LIFE
THEY ARE PRESSING FOR ANSWER
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED.
DR. KAHN'S TWO YOUNG CHILDRE
THOUGHT THEIR FATHER WOULD B
COMING HOME FOR CHRISTMAS.
THEY'D ALREADY MADE HIS WELCOM
HOME CARDS
ROMELY WEEK, ITV NEWS.
>>> IN GERMANY TODAY THE FORME
TYCOON SAID VLADIMIR PUTIN'S
DECISION TO FREE HIM FROM TH
RUSSIAN PRISON CAMP NEAR THE
ARCTIC CIRCLE DOES NOT MEAN TH
END OF POLITICAL OPPRESSION IN
THAT COUNTRY
HE SAID OTHER POLITICA
PRISONERS ARE STILL BEING HELD
ONCE RUSSIA'S RICHEST MAN WA
ARRESTED IN 2003 AND CONVICTED
ON FRAUD AND TAX EVASION
CHARGES, CHARGES HE INSISTS WERE
TRUMPED UP
>>> FROM CUBA, CONCILIATOR
LANGUAGE TOWARDS THE UNITE
STATES FROM PRESIDENT RAUL
CASTRO
THE 82-YEAR-OLD CUBAN LEADER
SAID A CIVILIZED RELATIONSHIP IS
WHAT CUBAN PEOPLE DESIRE
CASTRO SPOKE TWO WEEKS AFTER H
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA SHOOK HAND
AT THE MEMORIAL SERVICE FO
NELSON MANDELA
>>> IN BANGLADESH TODAY, THE
OWNER OF A GARMENT FACTORY AND
11 OTHERS WERE CHARGED WIT
NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE, THIS
FOLLOWING THE FIRE THAT KILLED
112 WORKERS IN NOVEMBER OF LAS
YEAR
THE FACTORY HAD NO EMERGENCY
FIRE EXITS
AN ESTIMATED 4 MILLION
BANGLADESHIS WORK IN GARMENT
FACTORIES THAT SUPPLY CLOTHES TO
WESTERN RETAILERS.
THE.
>>> THE HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT WH
WAS SHOT IN COLORADO NINE DAYS
AGO HAS DIED
CLAIRE DAVIS HAD BEEN IN A COM
FOR SEVERAL DAYS
AUTHORITIES DESCRIBED HER AS A
RANDOM TARGET.
THE GUNMAN, 18-YEAR-OLD CARL
PEARSON COMMITTED SUICIDE AFTE
THE SHOOTING
HE APPARENTLY MEANT TO SHOOT A
DEBATE TEAM COACH WH
DISCIPLINED HIM.
PEARSON ARRIVED AT THE SUBURBA
DENVER SCHOOL WILL ON DECEMBER
13th, WITH A SHOTGUN, A MASHET
AND THREE MOLOTOV COCKTAILS.
THE ONLY SURVIVING SON OF FORMER
PRESIDENT DWIGHT EISENHOWER HA
DIED
JOHN S. EISENHOWER WAS 91.
HE GRADUATED WESTPOINT AND HEL
THE RANK OF BRIGADIER GENERAL,
WAS AMBASSADOR AND THE AUTHOR OF
SEVERAL MILITARY HISTORIES AND
BILLIONAIRE BUSINESSMAN AN
PHILANTHROPIST EDGAR BRON OFMA
HAS DIED AND HE WAS 84
DURING HIS 26 YEARS AS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD JEWIS
CONGRESS HE SUCCESSFULLY LOBBIED
U.S. LAWMAKERS TO PRESS TH
SOVIET UNION TO ALLOW JEWS T
EMIGRATE
♪♪
>> NOW TO THE TOPIC ON THE MINDS
OF MANY PEOPLE THIS TIME O
YEAR
CHARITABLE GIVING.
STUDIES SHOW AMERICANS ARE AMONG
THE MOST GENEROUS IN THE WORLD
BUT DONATIONS ARE PARTIALL
FUELED BY TAX DEDUCTIONS AND FOR
SOME TIME NOW THERE'S BEEN TAL
ABOUT CAPPING THOSE DEDUCTIONS
FOR MORE ABOUT ALL OF THIS W
ARE JOINED NOW BY KEN BERGER
HE'S THE CEO OF CHARIT
NAVIGATOR WHICH RATES HO
EFFECTIVE CHARITIES ARE AT
ACTUALLY GETTING DONATIONS T
THOSE IN NEED.
THANKS VERY MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME
>> FIRST OF ALL, THE CAP O
DEDUCTIONS AND IT'S NOT THE LA
OF THE LAND, BUT IF IT SHOUL
BECOME LAW, WHAT DO YO
ANTICIPATE THE EFFECT WOULD BE
ESSENTIALLY BILLIONS OF DOLLAR
LESS WOULD BE GIVEN TO THE
CHARITY MOST LIKELY.
THE PERCENT OF THE OVERALL IS IN
QUESTION, BUT CERTAIN HE
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS LESS WOULD
BE GIVEN TO CHARITY.
WE WERE TALKING BEFOREHAND
YOU SAID $300 BILLION PER YEAR
AMERICANS ARE GIVING TO CHARIT
IN ONE FORM OR ANOTHER
>> THAT ALSO INCLUDE
FOUNDATIONS AND CORPORATIONS
>> A HUGE AMOUNT OF THAT I
HAPPENING THIS WEEKEND OR THIS
MONTH.
>> YES
BY FAR, THE MOST GIVING HAPPEN
THE LAST MONTH OF THE YEAR AND
EVEN THE LAST DAY OF THE YEAR IS
BY FAR THE DAY WHERE THE MOS
GIVING OCCURS AND THAT'S THE
LAST DAY BEFORE THE TAXES, YOU
KNOW, THE IMPACT OF THE TAXE
OCCUR SO THAT INDICATES THAT
TAXES ARE CERTAINLY A FACTOR
SO IF PEOPLE ARE SITTING DOW
AND TRYING TO MAKE A SMART
DECISION ABOUT WHERE TO GIVE
SOME OF THE RESOURCES.
WHAT DO YOU ADVISE THEM?
>> WE THINK THERE ARE THRE
CRITICAL THINGS TO CONSIDER.
ONE ARE THE FINANCES OF TH
ORGANIZATION AND IF IT'S MANAGED
WELL AND SECOND, THE GOVERNANC
OF THE ORGANIZATION AND DOES H
HAVE AN INDEPENDENT BOARD TO
LEAD THE ORGANIZATION.
IT'S NOT JUST THE CEO, YOU NEE
THAT BOARD IN CHARGE
THE RESULTS, IS IT TRULY MEETING
ITS MISSION AND DOES IT HAVE
DATA TO SHOW IN A MEASURABLE WAY
THAT IT'S HELPING PEOPLE
ALL OF THAT SOUNDS LIKE
DIFFICULT RESEARCH PROJECT
HOW CAN PEOPLE FIGURE THAT OUT
>> THAT'S WHY IT WAS CREATED
THROUGH A STAR RATING SYSTEM
REFLECT BACK THAT KIND O
INFORMATION BECAUSE IT'S TRU
THAT MOST AMERICANS ONLY GIV
ABOUT 15, 20 MINUTES TO THEI
DECISION MAKING AND SO TO TRY TO
HAVE THAT INFORMATION AVAILABL
FROM EXPERTS THAT CALLED THE
DATA IS THE WAY THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO HELP WITH THAT
>> I WAS SAYING IN THE
INTRODUCTION THAT AMERICANS AR
AMONG THE MOST CHARITABLE.
FIRST OF ALL, ARE WE THE MOST OR
AREN'T WE?
>> IF IT'S JUST CHARITABLE
DOLLARS.
ABSOLUTELY, BY FAR, TWO TO THREE
TIMES MORE GENEROUS THAN ANY
OTHER COUNTRY, BUT IF YO
INCLUDE TAXES USED FOR SOCIA
PROGRAMS LIKE FOR THE MENTALLY
ILL AND THE HOMELESS, THERE AR
COUNTRIES IN EUROPE THAT ARE
MORE GENEROUS.
SO WHEN YOU INCLUDE THAT, NO
WE'RE NOT.
>> AND THE VERY WEALTHY BY PAR
GIVE THE GIFT OF CHARITABL
GIVING AND YOU WERE SAYING
EARLIER THAT THE POOREST AMONG
US SORT OF POUND FOR POUND ARE
ACTUALLY MORE CHARITABLE
>> AS A PERCENT OF INCOME, THE
WORKING POOR ARE THE MOS
GENEROUS
FAR MORE THAN MIDDLE CLASS O
UPPER CLASS, BUT FOR DOLLA
VALUE, THE WEALTHY GIVE ABOU
70% OF ALL THE PRIVATE
CONTRIBUTIONS.
>> KEN BERGER, CEO OF CHARIT
NAVIGATOR, THANKS SO MUCH FO
JOINING US TODAY
>> THANK YOU
♪♪
>> FOLLOWING THE ISLAMIC
REVOLUTION IN 1979 NOT ONLY DI
IRANIAN POLITICS TAKE A HARD
TURN, SOME OF IRAN'S MOS
IMPORTANT ART WORK WAS BANNED,
DEEMED UNSUITABLE BY THE NEW
REGIME
THAT ART WORK HAS BEEN LARGELY
INVISIBLE UNTIL NOW.
IN AN EXHIBIT AT THE ASI
SOCIETY NEY NEW YORK THAT RUNS
THROUGH JANUARY 5th, THE ART
WORK REVEALS IRAN IN A WAY THA
HAD BEEN UNSEEN FOR MORE THAN 30
YEARS.
HERE'S ANOTHER LOOK AT THE STORY
WE BROUGHT YOU BACK IN OCTOBER
>> THROUGH SYMBOLISM WILL AN
CARICATURES OF PEOPLE IN POWER
NICKY'S ART WORK WALKS A FIN
LINE BETWEEN ART AND POLITICS.
>> I DON'T HAVE A CLEAR IDEA
I PLAY WITH IDEAS.
THERE ARE SOME AMBIGUITY IN TH
ART.
>> SO THIS IS KHOMEINI
>> ON ONE SIDE
>> BUT THAT AMBIGUITY DIDN'T
PREVENT HIM FROM FACING SHAR
CRITICISM IN THE HOMELAND OF
IRAN
THE NEW KHOMEINI REGIME BEGA
STRICTLY REGULATING ARTISTIC
EXPRESSION
ART WORK LIKE NAJIMI WAS
CONSIDERED OUTRAGEOUS.
>> ART WAS GONE FOR TEN YEAR
AFTER THE REVOLUTION
A LOT OF PEOPLE WENT OUT
A LET OF PEOPLE WENT
UNDERGROUND.
A LOT OF PEOPLE DIDN'T WORK AT
ALL.
>> HE WAS EXILED FROM IRAN AFTER
AN EXHIBITION OF HIS WORKS I
THE TEHRAN MUSEUM OF
CONTEMPORARY ART IN 1980
>> THEY LABELED ME
ANTI-REVOLUTION, ANTIKHOMEIN
AND ANTI-REGIME.
I GOT A CALL, DON'T TALK T
ANYONE
IF YOU CAN, GET OUT OF THE
COUNTRY.
>> AND YOU LEFT?
>> AND YOU LEFT.
>> I LEFT THE PAINTING
>> ALL OF THEM WERE IN THE
MUSEUM
>> WHERE ARE THEY NOW?
>> GOOD QUESTION
>> HE IS NOT SURE HE'LL EVER B
ABLE TO GO BACK TO IRAN, LET
ALONE SHOW HIS WORK THERE, BUT
HERE IN THE U.S. HE CONTINUES TO
PAINT AND HIS WORK FROM BEFORE
THE REVOLUTION IS GARNERING NE
ATTENTION FOR A TIME WHEN ART IN
IRAN WAS NOT CENSORED, BUT
ENCOURAGED
HIS WORK FROM THAT PERIOD IS
PART OF AN EXHIBIT OF 26 IRANIAN
ARTIVES AT NEW YORK'S ASIA
SOCIETY WITH MORE THAN 100
SCULPTURE, PAINTINGS AND
PHOTOGRAPHS AND IT'S THE LARGEST
EXHIBITION OF ITS KIND OUTSIDE
OF IRAN.
IN THE 1950s, '60s AND '70s,
MODERN ART IN IRAN IS THRIVING
IT COMBINED ARTISTIC TRADITION
WITH AVANT GARDE STYLE
THEY EXCHANGED TECHNIQUES.
THE MODERN ART SCENE WAS S
SIGNIFICANT THAT TEHRAN HAD IT
OWN BIENNALE EVERY TWO YEARS
>> IT WAS MODERNIZING AND SO THE
ARTISTS WERE ALSO MODERNIZIN
THEIR WORK IN MANY DIFFERENT
WAYS AND IT BECAME A REAL KIND
OF CULTURING FLOWERING OF IK
RAINIAN ART DURING THIS TIME
>> MARISA CHU IS THE DIRECTOR OF
THE ART SOCIETY IN NEW YORK.
SHE HOPES THE EXHIBIT SHEDS
DIFFERENT LIGHT ON IRAN'
HISTORY.
>> THE EXHIBITION IS ABOUT A
PERIOD WHEN IRAN AND THE U.S
WERE QUITE CLOSE POLITICALLY AND
THERE WAS A LOT MORE BACK AN
FORTH AND CLOSER COMMUNICATION
THAN WE HAVE NOW WITH TH
POLITICAL SITUATION.
>> AND CHU NOTES THA
CONTEMPORARY ARTISTS CONTINUE TO
FACE CENSORSHIP IN IRAN.
>> WHAT IS IT ABOUT ART THAT I
SO DANGEROUS TO REGIMES.
>> WELL, I THINK ART IS OFTE
THE VOICE OF CRITICALITY
THEY CRITIQUE ISSUES OF POWER.
THEY CRITIQUE THINGS THAT THEY
SEE AROUND THEM, AND I THINK
THAT CAN SOMETIMES MAKE IT
DIFFICULT FOR THOSE IN POWER
>> BUT ART IS ALMOST IMPOSSIBL
TO SUPPRESS.
THE CONTEMPORARY ART SCENE HAS
BEEN GAINING STRENGTH IN IRAN IN
RECENT YEARS, PARTICULARLY I
ANIMATION, FILM AND PHOTOGRAPHY.
ARTISTS FROM IRAN HAVE WON WORLD
PRESS PHOTO AWARDS AND LAST YEAR
THE IRANIAN FILM, "A SEPARATION"
WON THE OSCAR FOR BEST FOREIGN
FILM, THE FIRST ONE EVER FOR
IRAN AND THERE ARE HOPES THA
UNDER THE NEW GOVERNMENT I
TEHRAN THERE WILL BE SOM
RELAXATION OF IRAN'S
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS AN
WITH IT, RELAXATION OF
RESTRICTIONS ON ARTISTIC
EXPRESSION THIS COULD ALLO
NAJIMI'S WORK TO BE SEEN IN HI
HOMELAND AGAIN
♪♪
>> GET A CLOSER LOOK AT HIS AR
WORK
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
ON THE NEWS HOUR TOMORROW YO
WILL HEAR FROM TWO MEMBERS O
THE INDEPENDENT PANEL ADVISING
THE PRESIDENT ON CHANGES T
GOVERN THE SURVEILLANCE.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, THERE ARE NEARLY 29,000
COMMERCIAL FLIGHTS EVERY DAY I
THIS COUNTRY AND AN ESTIMATE
5.5 MILLION OF YOU WILL TAKE T
THE SKIES DURING THIS HOLIDA
SEASON AND WHILE YOU OFTEN HEA
ABOUT HOW DISSATISFIED CUSTOMERS
ARE WITH THE AIRLINES, THAT'
NOT THE ONLY STORY
>> AS A CORRESPONDENT I'VE
TRAVELED MORE THAN 2 MILLION
MILES ON ASSIGNMENT, USUALLY I
A HURRY.
>> RUSHING TO ONE STORY AFTE
ANOTHER.
>> ALONG THE WAY, I NOTICED THAT
THE MOST POWERFUL STORIES OFTE
WORK WHERE I WAS HEADING TO OR
COMING FROM AT ALL
BUT IN BETWEEN AND USUALLY
SITTING RIGHT NEXT TO ME
>> FOR EXAMPLE
I WAS FLYING AMERICAN AIRLINES
FLIGHT 2473, BOSTON TO DALLAS,
AND I WAS IN 21C, NEXT TO ME I
21B WAS NORMANDY VILLA
AS WE HEADED SOUTH ACROSS TH
SKIES ACROSS PENNSYLVANIA AN
WEST VIRGINIA, NORMANDY SHARED
SUCH A STORY WITH ME THAT WHEN
HIS FAMILY INVITED ME TO JOI
HIM SIX WEEKS LATER NEAR THEIR
HOME IN NEW JERSEY I GLADL
ACCEPTED
♪♪
TO UNDERSTAND WHAT'S GOING O
HERE, YOU SHOULD KNOW TW
THINGS
FIRST, EVEN THOUGH THIS FAMILY
COMES FROM COLOMBIA, NORMANDY IS
NAMED AFTER ONE OF THE MOS
IMPORTANT MOMENTS IN AMERICA
HISTORY.
>> THE BATTLE OF NORMANDY IN
FRANCE IS THE LIBERATION OF TH
EARTH AND MY GRANDFATHER SAW
THAT AS SUCH A POWERFUL MOMENT
IN HISTORY THAT HE WANTED TO
HAVE HIS FAMILY CARRY A NAME
THAT REFERRED TO A NEW DAWN, AND
SO THE FIRSTBORN IN THE FAMILY
RECEIVED THE NAME NORMANDY
>> THAT FIRSTBORN WAS THIS MAN
NORMANDY, SENIOR
>> WHICH BRINGS US TO THE SECOND
THING, SENIOR WOULD ALSO HEA
SOMETHING AMERICAN THAT WOUL
INSPIRE HIM.
>> ASK NOT WHAT YOUR COUNTRY CAN
DO FOR YOU, ASK WHAT YOU CAN D
FOR YOUR COUNTRY
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE
>> IT WAS A CALL TO SERVICE, T
MAKE YOUR SOCIETY BE BETTER THAN
IT WAS AFTER YOU'RE GONE
>> HE NEVER REALLY FORGOT THAT
>> HE NEVER FORGOT THAT.
IT STUCK IN HIS HEAD
IT WAS STUCK WITH HIM FOREVER.
>> AS WE FLEW TOWARDS TEXAS,
NORMANDY TOLD ME HOW HIS PARENTS
HAD BEEN COMFORTABLY MIDDL
CLASS IN COLOMBIA WHEN THE DRU
CARTELS THERE BEGAN DESTROYING
WHAT THEY VALUED MOST, RESPECT
FOR PUBLIC EDUCATION
JFK'S SPEECH STRUCK A NERVE IN
HIS FATHER WHO THAT DAY BEGA
THE PROCESS OF BRINGING HI
FAMILY TO AMERICA.
>> ALBA WAS A LITTLE GIRL WHEN
THEY ARRIVED IN NEW JERSEY
>> WE SLEPT ON COTS IN THE
LIVING ROOM, DEPENDING ON TH
CIRCUMSTANCES.
NORMANDY'S MOTHER, A LITERATUR
TEACHER WOULD SPEND THE NEXT 2
YEARS IN AMERICA WORKING A
NEAR-MINIMUM WAGE AS A DAY CAR
ASSISTANT.
HERE, SHE REMEMBERS SAYING
GOOD-BYE TO HER MOTHER
>> I REMEMBER SHE SAID ARE YOU
SURE YOU CAN MOVE OVER THERE
ARE YOU SURE YOU'RE GOING TO B
OKAY
>> NORMANDY'S FATHER,
COLLEGE-EDUCATED CHEMIST AND
STATISTICIAN WOUND UP LABORING
25 YEARS IN AMERICA AS A STOCK
BOY, LIFTING BOXES UNTIL ONE BOX
FINALLY BROKE HIS BACK
>> THEY SACRIFICED THEIR OWN
DREAMS IN NORMANDY'S OTHER
SISTER, MARCELA.
>> THEIR PROFESSIONA
ASPIRATIONS THEY PUT ASIDE FOR
US BECAUSE THEY BELIEVED THAT WE
COULD DO SOMETHING BETTER HERE
SO IN THEIR SMALL TWO-ROOM
APARTMENT IN NEW JERSEY, THEIR
MOM EMPHASIZED LITERATURE.
THEIR DAD TUTORED THEM IN MATH
FROM HIS COLOMBIAN COLLEGE
TEXTBOOKS, WHAT HAPPENED
ALL, BUT THE OLDEST WENT TO TH
IVY LEAGUE'S BROWN UNIVERSIT
AND ON TO LAW SCHOOL
MARCELA ALSO WENT TO BROWN AND
THEN MEDICAL SCHOOL.
THIRD CHILD DAVID, HARVARD, AN
WHILE I WOULD LIKE TO TELL YOU
MY SEAT MATE NORMANDY WENT T
COLLEGE WITHOUT INCIDENT, IT
DIDN'T HAPPEN THAT WAY
>> AS WE FLEW OUR LAST LEG INT
DALLAS INTERNATIONAL, I LEARNE
ONE MONTH BEFORE HIS FRESHMA
YEAR IN COLLEGE, NOR HANDES OF
ALMOST KILLED IN A BICYCLE
ACCIDENT
>> HE WAS IN A COMA FOR DAY, HIS
BRAIN SO DAMAGED THAT WHEN H
FINALLY WOKE UP HE COULDN'T SE
VERY WELL OR THINK CLEARLY, AN
YET HE ATTACKED HI
REHABILITATION WITH SUCH
DETERMINATION THAT HIS FATHER,
PERHAPS THE STRONGEST MAN HE
KNEW BEGAN CALLING HIM E
TRUCADOR, THE FIGHTER.
AND SO HE ENTERED COLLEGE ON
TIME, A FULL YEAR BEFORE DOCTORS
THOUGHT HE COULD DO IT
>> HE'S ONE OF THE PEOPLE I MOST
ADMIRE IN THIS WORLD
HE IS JUST SOMETHING ELSE.
♪♪
>> FIVE WEEKS AFTER I ME
NORMANDY HE GRADUATED FROM
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
THE FOURTH IN HIS FAMILY TO EARN
AN IVY LEAGUE EDUCATION.
ED THEY DONE IT WITH
SCHOLARSHIP, WITH YOU WHEN I
ASKED HIM HOW HIS PARENTS COUL
AFFORD THE WEEK-LONG TRIP TO
BOSTON, HE SAID SOME GUY SENT US
$3,000
WHEN I ASKED WHO, HE SHOWED ME
THE GUY.
>> BILL GATES, HE'S MARIED TO
COLOMBIAN.
>> NORMANDY IS A GATES
MILLENNIUM SCHOLAR, ONE OF THE
STUDENTS WHO GATES WILL HELP PUT
THROUGH COLLEGE OVER THE NEX
SEVERAL YEARS.
>> GATES' MESSAGE TO ALL THOSE
SCHOLARS SOUNDED ALMOS
IDENTICAL TO WHAT NORMANDY'S
FATHER AND GRANDFATHER HAD SAID.
LIVE LIVES OF SERVICE.
>> I HOPE YOU WILL JUDGE
YOURSELF NOT ON YOUR
PROFESSIONAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS
ALONE, BUT ALSO ON HOW WELL YO
TREATED PEOPLE A WORLD AWAY WH
HAVE NOTHING IN COMMON WITH YOU,
BUT THEIR HUMANITY
GOOD LUCK.
>> AND SO THAT'S WHAT NORMANDY
ANDS HIS SIBLINGS WILL DO.
SERVE IN PUBLIC HEALTH, MEDICINE
AND THE LAW, AND BY THE WAY,
WHEN HIS FATHER WENT TO HARVAR
FOR HIS SON'S GRADUATION, HE
VISITED THE KENNEDY SCHOOL O
GOVERNMENT THERE AND FOUND THE
WORDS THAT HAD LAUNCHED HI
AMERICAN DREAM SO MANY YEARS AGO
WRITTEN IN STONE
>> ASK WHAT YOU CAN DO FOR YOU
COUNTRY.
>> SO YOU CAN MAYBE UNDERSTAND
WHY MY SEATMATE'S GRADUATION
PARTY WAS SOMETHING NOT TO B
MISSED
BEFORE I LEFT NORMANDY AND HIS
FAMILY, WAS THERE ONE MORE
CELEBRATION.
>> WHEN THEY TOOK ME ON
FAVORITE FIELD TRIP.
>> FOR HIM IT'S A SYMBOL O
OPPORTUNITY.
>> THE STATUE OF LIBERTY, JUST A
COUPLE OF MILES FROM THEIR
APARTMENT WAS A YEARLY
DESTINATION FOR THIS FAMILY AN
IT'S AS GOOD A PLACE AS ANY TO
END THIS STORY
NORMANDY'S FATHER SET TH
PROMISE THAT BROUGHT THEM TO
AMERICA HAD ALMOST NOTHING TO DO
WITH MAKING MORE MONEY OR HAVING
A BIG HOUSE.
REMEMBER, THEY HAD THAT.
IT HAD MORE TO DO WITH WHAT HI
FATHER HAD HEARD IN THE GUNS O
NOR HANDY AND WHAT HE HAD HEAR
IN JFK, THAT AMERICANS AT THEI
VERY CORE ARE PEOPLE WHO SERVE
OTHERS
WHEN YOU MEET THE VILLAS AND
UNDERSTAND THEIR SACRIFICE, YO
CAN'T HELP THE WONDER, IS NO
SCANNING THE HORIZON FOR
OPPORTUNITY AS MANY BELIEVE, BUT
INSTEAD CHECKING TO SEE WHAT
WE'VE DONE WITH OURS
WHEN I ARRIVED IN DALLAS I
DIDN'T KNOW THAT NORMANDY WOUL
SOON INVITE ME TO HIS HARVAR
GRADUATION, BUT I DID KNOW HIS
STORY WAS BETTER THAN THE ONE
WAS FREEWAYING HOME FROM
THAT'S THE THING ABOUT FLYIN
COACH.
YOU DON'T REALLY FIND GREA
STORIES, THEY FIND YOU WHICH I
WOULD AGAIN LEARN VERY SOON WHEN
I MET DONNA.
BUT SHE'S AN ENTIRELY OTHE
STORY.
>>> NORMANDY IS BACK IN GRAD
SCHOOL, STUDYING PUBLIC HEALTH
AND HOPES TO SOME DAY BECOME A
SURGEON TO SERVE WHAT HE CALLS
UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES.
AS FOR HIS FATHER, NORMANDY'
SENIOR FINALLY GOT HIS CHANC
AFTER PUTTING HIS KIDS THROUGH
SCHOOL HE GRADUATED WITH A B.A
FROM DICKINSON UNIVERSITY WHER
HE ALSO MADE THE DEAN'S LIST
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS PBS NEWS
HOUR WEEKEND
I'M JOHN LARSON.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.